#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
The core of human environment interaction is the ability of the person to
 know its position in the surrounding environment.
 Similarly for robots the need to know its state in the world is an important
 task and it is termed as localization.
 To interact with the environment we need some sort of understanding of
 it.Primarily mapping the environment and localizing the robot in it i.e.
 Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) has been a way to interact
 with the world.
 The integral part of SLAM is the way the robot moves and senses the world.
 The characteristics of movement and sensing the world are captured in the
 motion and sensor models.
 However infrequently discussed but essential input are the parameters to
 these models.
 Most of the models are considered to be static which is a wrong assumption
 to make.
 For example the movement of the robot on carpet is very different compared
 to tiles.
 Another example would be the models can change from general wear and tear
 on the robot.
 Generally the motion and sensor models are hand tuned by experts based
 on their experience.
 The whole can be tedious and we propose a way to automate it.
 As we are moving head in our goal of making robots a ubiquitous part our
 everyday life they need to adapt our dynamic surroundings.
 The algorithm that we are proposing not only will help automate the process
 but also help us adapt the models to our environment.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Water environments like oceans,rivers are highly dynamic and change in a
 matter of seconds which affects the movement of the vehicles.For example
 in Autonomous Underwater Vehicle(AUV) the density and the temperature of
 the water can lead to changes in the motion model.
 For my thesis we will specifically deal with underwater environments and
 propose an online system for an AUV to adapt its motion model.
 We specifically dealt with AUV that are equipped with side sonar sensor.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Sound Navigation and Ranging (SONAR) is a technique based on sound propagation
 used for communication,detecting objects underwater.
 The SONAR sensor is the only imaging tool which can work at high depth.
 The side sonar images can be used to gather information for our sensor
 model.
 By matching features on consecutive side sonar images we can get an estimate
 of the movement for the AUV.
 We use Speeded Up Robust Features(SURF) to extract interest points from
 the images.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To learn the right parameters of the model we use Expectation Maximization(EM).
 It is an unsupervised machine learning technique primarily used to estimate
 parameters.
 It alternates between the Expectation Step which creates an expectation
 of the log-likelihood using the current estimate of the parameters and
 the Maximization Step which computes parameters maximizing the expected
 log-likelihood found in the E step.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To summarize I am proposing an algorithm to learn the right parameters of
 the model specifically to deal with changes underwater.
 We are learning these parameters on the fly without having a prior map
 or revisiting places.
 We also put forward an idea to estimate the movement of AUV from side sonar
 images.
 Results of simulated experiments with environment changes are presented
 to show the effectiveness of the algorithm.
 Real mission datasets are used to validate our motion estimation algorithm.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
