#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
In AUV the motion estimation is generally done through dead-reckoning.
 It is a process of calculating the current position based upon the previous
 position and the speed of vessel.
 The velocity of the AUV can be estimated by the acceleration measurement
 supplied by an Inertial Measurement Unit.
 Another way is to use a Doppler Velocity Log that measures velocity in
 water by measuring the Doppler effect on scattered sound waves.
 Dead reckoning may have significant errors as the velocity and direction
 must be accurately known at every time step.
 As the next estimate is based on the previous estimate the error accumulates.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this algorithm we propose to get motion estimates using side sonar images.
 As stated before we run SURF on the images and generate some key points.
 These key points are matched in the next image using a knn based matcher.
 The matched key points gives us an estimate on the movement of the vehicle.
 In the figure we show two consecutive images and in the first image we
 have the key points marked in circle.
 In the next image we have the matched key points marked in green circles.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This estimate can be coupled with the previous estimate to calculate the
 current position.
 The visual input to the dead reckoning algorithm has its pros and cons.The
 main advantage of using a visual estimate is that it doesn't suffer from
 drift which is concern for underwater vehicles.
 The disadvantage lies in the fact that we don't have side sonar images
 available every time.
 We can solve the problem by combining the visual input with the velocity
 estimates.
 We can pass the visual motion estimate and the DVL estimate to a Kalman
 Filter and use the output as an input to our dead-reckoning estimate.
 The second disadvantage is the computation power available on AUV.
 To specifically deal with the problems we use a high Hessian threshold
 to extract maximum of 4 landmarks so that feature matching is not computational
ly expensive.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We validate our algorithm on datasets consisting of side sonar images and
 the total distance the AUV moves.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
